In your ministry, have you ever met someone who strongly believes that we are still under the Ten Commandments?
That can happen at times, because many people, especially in the southern parts of this country, feel very strongly about the Ten Commandments.
There are even legal battles going on as to whether monuments displaying the Ten Commandments can be displayed on government property.
And, of course, many people feel that the Ten Commandments basically are what was used for the Constitution and for the laws of many countries.
So, at one point, perhaps a person might say to us, do you believe that we are still under the Ten Commandments?
Perhaps you may diplomatically answer, well, I believe we're under the principles of the Ten Commandments and the Law of Love, the Law of the Christ.
A person may push the point and say, but do you believe the Ten Commandments are binding today?
Well, when we give them an explanation from the Scriptures, perhaps they may feel disappointed.
And maybe they realize that there's a verse in the Bible that they feel supports their belief.
So, let's take our Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter 5, the sermon on the Mount, from which our text is taken this morning.
And perhaps they may point to verses 17 and 18.
Now, that reads, do not think I came to destroy the Law or the prophets.
I came not to destroy, but to fulfill.
Truly, I say to you that sooner would heaven and earth pass away than for one stroke of a letter to pass away from the Law until all things take place.
Now, this person in presenting their explanation may show that they believe this expression fulfilled means established permanently.
And even some Bible commentaries say that this involves total commitment.
Well, how would you answer the person at that stage? How can we help them?
Perhaps you might take them through a series of Scriptures, such as Romans chapter 10 verse 4, where it says Christ is the end of the Law.
You might read Galatians chapter 4 verses 4 and 5, where it says those under the Law were released, or Ephesians 2 verse 15, where it speaks of the Law being abolished.
But if you've done that, perhaps you've had the same experience that I have, that a person may agree with those Scriptures, but say, that's not referring to the Ten Commandments.
That's referring to all the other laws in the Mosaic Law arrangement, but the Ten Commandments remain forever.
Well, how can you help someone to reason on that matter?
Well, let's look back again at Matthew chapter 5, and we noticed there in verses 17 and 18, it mentions Jesus came not to destroy, but to fulfill.
And we could ask the person how they understand the word fulfill, what they feel that means, and perhaps they might say, establish permanently.
Well, then we could point out that Jesus continues then to talk about various aspects of the Law.
If we look at verse 21, what do we notice? You heard that it was said to those of ancient times, you must not murder.
So yes, this is one of the Ten Commandments.
Interestingly, the study Bible, on a note on this verse says, this phrase, you heard that it was said, can refer both to the things stated in the inspired Hebrew Scriptures and to teachings of Jewish tradition.
And we'll see this as we go on.
If we go to verse 23, what does it talk about here?
If then you are bringing your gift to the altar, and there you remember your brother has something against you.
This is not part of the Ten Commandments, is it? It's talking about the arrangements for sacrifices.
Then if we look at verse 27, you heard that it was said, you must not commit adultery.
Well, again, we have the Ten Commandments.
But if we look at verse 31, Jesus here says, moreover, it was said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.
That's not one of the Ten Commandments, is it?
Reading on further in verse 33, it says, again, you heard that it was said to those of ancient times, you must not swear without performing.
Again, not one of the Ten Commandments.
Verse 38, you heard that it was said, I for I and tooth for tooth.
And then we come to the scripture we've been considering this morning in verse 43.
You heard that it was said, you must love your neighbor and hate your enemy.
Now, when we consider this, we look at the study Bible notes on this verse.
It makes this comment about hate your enemy.
It says, the mosaic law contained no such command.
Some Jewish rabbis believe that the command to love their neighbor implied that they should hate their enemy.
So this wasn't really part of the law that Moses gave.
But what do we see from this?
Well, if a person argues very strongly that the word fulfilled when Jesus is talking about the law applies to the Ten Commandments only,
we look down here at Jesus when he's talking about the law doesn't just talk about the Ten Commandments, does he?
He talks about all these things, including even the oral tradition.
So if a person were to believe that Jesus' words when saying fulfilled,
referred to absolutely establishing something permanently,
would also feel or have to feel that he's referring to this law, I for I, tooth for tooth.
When, in fact, he showed something better than that, didn't he?
And the same too with the screenshot for today's text.
So what do we see here?
Well, we can't make that comment about Jesus' words.
So what does it mean when it says to fulfill and not to destroy?
Perhaps a simple illustration would help us if someone signs a contract as a builder to build a home for someone else.
What does it mean to destroy the contract?
Well, perhaps it means ripping it up, burning it, getting rid of it, certainly not building the house.
But on the other hand, what does it mean to fulfill the contract to build the house?
Well, it means that the person builds a house.
But once the house is built, then the contract is completed or fulfilled.
This person is an under obligation to continue over and over again to keep building the same house.
So perhaps an illustration such as that may help someone of humble heart
to see that when Jesus said he came not to destroy but to fulfill,
that he wasn't there to eradicate the law in Galatians 4 mentions he was born under law.
So he had to fulfill or complete or do what the law stated.
But of course the other scriptures help us when they tell us that the law was completed, that the Christ was the end to the law.
Now perhaps the person might still find this a little difficult to comprehend.
But one final scripture we could share with them is in the book of Romans.
Romans chapter 7 and verses 6 and 7.
Romans 7, 6 and 7.
Verse 6 says, but now we have been released from the law because we have died to that which restrained us
in order that we might be slaves in a new sense by the spirit and not in the old sense by the written code.
Now if we pause there perhaps the person might jump in and say,
I guess that's the law that doesn't include the Ten Commandments.
Those are all the other laws but the Ten Commandments remain forever.
Well then we ask them just let's read on verse 7.
What does it say?
What then are we to say?
Is the law sin?
Certainly not.
Really I would not have come to know sin had it not been for the law.
For example now what example is Paul going to use?
For example I would not have known covetousness if the law had not said you must not cover it.
So obviously the apostle Paul and our Lord Jesus Christ did not separate the law into two parts,
the Ten Commandments and the other laws.
So we can see clearly from here that we have a good answer to give persons when they adamantly state that the Ten Commandments are still binding.
Hopefully we can go on then to help them to see that Jesus was teaching us the principles behind the laws
and that the law of the Christ involves loving Jehovah and loving our neighbors and then following what direction Jehovah has given us.
So you may think this is quite a complicated subject to discuss early in the morning.
But next time when someone does ask you do you believe the Ten Commandments are binding?
Hopefully you remember these comments.